---
title: How to Grow Kale
slug: personal-garden
date: 20210331
summary: How I grow kale and peppers in my room
---

# Hello World!
Welcome to the *new and improved* MikeCurry.dev! A lot has changed for me since the last iteration. I got my first job as a JavaScript developer, I started keeping a writen journal, and I got a motorcycle. The previous version of this website was built with Gatsby, and while it's a great framework, it's a little too much configuration for me, personally. This version is built with Next.js. To me, Next feels like a `create-react-app` project with routing baked in, plus all of the performance gains of <abbr title="server side rendering">SSR</abbr> (this comes at a cost!). 

I initially had some design goals in mind for this site, mostly centered around animations with `react-spring`. I had the transitions and animations set up the way I wanted them, but then it came to my attention (via Tatiana Mac's excellent [article](https://tatianamac.com/posts/prefers-reduced-motion/)) that not everyone wants to experience said animations. In fact, by forcing users to see animations without use of the `prefers-reduced-motion` media query, you're operating under a no-consent model and that ultimately alienates a significant portion of your potential audience. I highly suggest you check out all of their articles, there's a lot of excellent <abbr title="numeronym for accessability">A11Y</abbr> content. From that point on, I decided to take this site back to the drawing board and make a11y and inclusivity a primary feature of this site.

## React-Spring with Reduced Motion
In a typical React application, you can get media query settings via `window.watchMedia`, which is fine. You can then pass the function a query, such as `(prefers-reduced-motion: reduce)` and if the user has set an OS setting to disable animations, that expression will evalutate to true and you can assign that value to a variable to control animations. This can be done with `react-spring` in a number of different ways, check out Josh W Comeau's [post](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/prefers-reduced-motion/) to see how. There are some caveats when doing SSR, namely the fact that `window` is not defined in a server environment. This could cause run time exceptions. To work around this issue, Josh employs React's `useEffect` hook to run the `window` dependent code after rendering, and only after a state value that signifies if your app is rendering on the server or in a browser. Using the approach Josh outlines can allow you to access media settings in your server-rendered app safely to contorl whether to run animations or not according to user preferences.

## That's All Folks
This is as much as I can write for now. I'll try my best to continue adding more posts as I learn new things. Perhaps I'll be able to *bloggify* some writings from my journal. In the mean time, I occasionaly post to Twitter under the name [@mikedubcurry](https://twitter.com/mikedubcurry)

